---
layout: ""
page_title: "Provider: IBM Turbonomic"
description: |-
  The Turbonomic provider supplies data resources to interact with the Turbonomic API.
---

# IBM Turbonomic provider

The Turbonomic provider supplies data resources to interact with the Turbonomic API.

The provider sets Turbonomic as the source of truth for scaling decisions about cloud
entities that are deployed through Terraform. The data source of the provider returns
the tier size based on Turbonomic scaling action recommendations, or the current size
if no scaling action exists.

## Example usage

```terraform
terraform {
  required_providers {
    turbonomic = {
      source  = "IBM/turbonomic"
      version = "1.2.0"
    }
  }
}

provider "turbonomic" {
  hostname   = var.hostname
  username   = var.username
  password   = var.password
  skipverify = var.skipverify
}
```

## Authentication and configuration

The following examples demonstrate the Terraform code to and use the provider in different cloud environments.

### Configuring the provider credentials

Before you can use the provider, you must configure it with credentials.  You can use either `username` and `password` or `OAuth 2.0`.

#### Example using username/password credentials

```terraform
terraform {
  required_providers {
    turbonomic = {
      source  = "IBM/turbonomic"
      version = "1.2.0"
    }
  }
}

provider "turbonomic" {
  hostname   = var.hostname
  username   = var.username
  password   = var.password
  skipverify = var.skipverify
}
```

#### Example using OAuth 2.0 credentials

In order to authenticate to Turbonomic's API using OAuth 2.0, you first need to create an OAuth client.
For more information, see [Creating and authenticating an OAuth 2.0 client](https://www.ibm.com/docs/en/tarm/8.15.0?topic=cookbook-authenticating-oauth-20-clients-api#cookbook_administration_oauth_authentication__title__4)
to create the client. The output from the preceeding documentation will result in the following parameters:
- clientId
- clientSecret
- role

```terraform
terraform {
  required_providers {
    turbonomic = {
      source  = "IBM/turbonomic"
      version = "1.2.0"
    }
  }
}

provider "turbonomic" {
  hostname      = var.hostname
  client_id     = var.client_id
  client_secret = var.client_secret
  role          = var.role
  skipverify    = var.skipverify
}
```

-> **NOTE:** Valid roles are ADMINISTRATOR, SITE_ADMIN, AUTOMATOR, DEPLOYER, ADVISOR, OBSERVER, OPERATIONAL_OBSERVER, SHARED_ADVISOR and SHARED_OBSERVER.

## Features and bug requests

If you have a bug or feature request, then use one of the following resources to create an issue:

* If an existing feature of the provider is working in an unexpected way, [raise a support case] (https://ibm.biz/turbonomic-support).

* If you'd like the provider to support a new feature, [raise an idea] (https://ibm.biz/turbonomic-ideas)
 to the Turbonomic product team.

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Optional

- `client_id` (String) the OAuth 2.0 client ID that can be used to access the Turbonomic instance; use TURBO_CLIENT_ID to set with an enviornment variable
- `client_secret` (String, Sensitive) the OAuth 2.0 client secret that can be used to access the Turbonomic instance; use TURBO_CLIENT_SECRET to set with an enviornment variable
- `hostname` (String) hostname or IP Address of Turbonomic Instance; use TURBO_HOSTNAME to set with an enviornment variable
- `password` (String, Sensitive) password for the username to access the Turbonomic Instance; use TURBO_PASSWORD to set with an enviornment variable
- `role` (String) the OAuth 2.0 role that can be used to access the Turbonomic instance; use TURBO_ROLE to set with an enviornment variable
- `skipverify` (Boolean) boolean on whether to verify the SSL or TLS certificate for the hostname
- `username` (String) username to access the Turbonomic Instance; use TURBO_USERNAME to set with an enviornment variable
